# The Anti-Malvertising Project

Statement of purpose: The Anti-Malvertising project aims to collate a list of
domains reasonably thought to harbor resources including, but not limited to:
computer code of any type or format, images of any sort, videos, Flash objects,
text, HTML, or any other objects that relate to advertising, behavioral or other
tracking, malware, or malvertising (hereinafter: "malvertising"). Likewise, the
project aims to include domains that act as _repositories_ of any form of
behavioral or other tracking data or any other sort of reasonably objectionable
data. While doing this, and keeping in mind the possibility of creating a burden
by overblocking, certain domains will not be included if they would completely
or largely break sites that should not reasonably be broken. These sources of
malvertising will need to be dealt with more surgically, and _elsewhere._

In summary: the project aims to ease bandwidth use and/or prevent advertising.
And, for example, it will not include facebook.​com, because too many people
reasonably expect Facebook to work. Nor will it include graph.facebook.​com,
because that would also break Facebook, and it might break some arguably
legitimate use of Facebook resources outside the Facebook site itself. We
strongly advise the use of other products and services _in addition_ to possible
applications of this list, such as ad-blocking / surveillance-blocking browser
extensions.

To clarify: the vast amount of "mere" advertising in use today, apart from
wasting frequently _limited, **PAID-for** data quotas,_ carries with it either a
guarantee or at least a strong possibility that _it could be used for
surveillance purposes,_ whether or not the advertisers _intend any malicious
purpose_ and regardless of whether the data _is actually being abused._ _The
mere possibility of abuse_—past, present, or future—is enough to merit
inclusion; hence the blanket term "malvertising." If advertisers ever take
meaningful, measurable and sufficient steps to limit their harmfulness to
privacy and their data wastage, they might be considered for removal if listed.

---

Administrivia: _Although unnecessary in some countries,_ the data here is hereby
donated to the public domain, for worldwide use or viewing, for any purpose
whatsoever. This public domain dedication is further detailed in the LICENSE
document. Some legal jurisdictions deem mere factual data—such as this
database—to be uncopyrightable for any reason, or in only highly limited cases.
We would also tend to argue that mere fact _cannot ever_ enjoy an exception to
free speech rights in any genuinely democratic jurisdiction for any reason.

Further: Although the list is presented as generic BIND zone definitions, the
project could potentially host other formats, or even tools to convert or modify
the list or the formatting thereof. Submissions are welcome. However, the list
exists at present due to the fact that the author employs it for personal use it
in its existing format. The project creator is merely presenting the list here
in hopes that it could be useful to others or that it could attract
contributions; especially to the domain data itself.

Anyone intending to use the list without modification should already be familiar
with basic operation of [ISC's BIND
software.](https:www.isc.org/downloads/bind/)
